>> Brown: AS MANY AS 26,000
MEMBERS OF THE MILITARY WERE
SEXUALLY ASSAULTED LAST YEAR,
THAT ESTIMATE FROM A NEW
PENTAGON STUDY RELEASED TODAY.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Suarez: AND I'M RAY SUAREZ.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE
EXAMINE THE GROWING SCANDAL, A
PROBLEM PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID HE
WOULDN'T TOLERATE.
>> Brown: THEN, AS SOUTH KOREA'S
NEW LEADER VISITS THE WHITE
HOUSE, WE ASSESS CONTINUING
TENSIONS ON THE KOREAN
PENINSULA.
>> Suarez: SPENCER MICHELS
VISITS SAN FRANCISCO'S
EXPLORATORIUM, A SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY CENTER WITH A HANDS-
ON APPROACH THAT PEAKS THE
IMAGINATIONS OF CHILDREN AND
ADULTS ALIKE.
>> WE KNOW WE HAVE A GOOD
EXHIBIT WHEN THE PERSON LAUGHS
AND TURNS ARNDOU AND SAYS TO
ANYBODY PASSING "HEY, LOOK AT
THIS!"
THAT'S A GOOD EXHIBIT.
>> Brown: HOW MUCH ARE ACROSS-
THE-BOARD FEDERAL SPENDING CUTS
HITTING PROGRAMS AROUND THE
COUNTRY?
WE CHECK IN WITH PUBLIC MEDIA
COLLEAGUES IN THREE STATES.
>> Suarez: AND WE HAVE A STORY
ABOUT PRESERVING THE NATION'S
CULTURAL IDENTITY, CONTAINED IN
MILLIONS OF PIECES OF FILM,
VIDEO, AND AUDIO GATHERED OVER
MORE THAN 100 YEARS.
>> THERE'S A BELIEF AMONG THE
YOUNGER GENERATION THAT
EVERYTHING HAS BEEN DIGITIZED,
THAT THAT EVER EXISTED BEFORE OR
WILL SOON BE AND WILL BE
AVAILABLE ON THE INTERNET AND
THAT'S FACTUALLY NOT ACCURATE.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Suarez: THE PROBLEM OF SEXUAL
ASSAULTS IN THE NATION'S ARMED
FORCES IS GETTING WORSE-- AND
MAYBE MUCH WORSE.
THE ISSUE DREW THE NATIONAL
SPOTLIGHT TODAY, AND A
PRESIDENTIAL REBUKE.
>> WE WON'T KOHL RATE THIS AND
THERE WILL BE GROWING
ACCOUNTABILITY.
>> Suarez: THE NEWS RAISED THE
PRESIDENT'S HACKLES AT A NEWS
CONFERENCE WITH THE PRESIDENT OF
SOUTH KOREA.
>> LET'S START WITH THE
PRINCIPLE THAT SEXUAL ASSAULT IS
AN OUTRAGE.
IT IS A CRIME.
THAT'S TRUE FOR SOCIETY AT LARGE
AND IF IT'S HAPPENING INSIDE OUR
MILITARY THAN WHOEVER CARRIES IT
OUT IS BETRAYING THE UNIFORM
THAT THEY'RE WEARING.
>> Suarez: MR. OBAMA SPOKE AS AN
ANNUAL PENTAGON STUDY REPORTED
SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN THE MILITARY
ROSE FROM JUST UNDER
3,300 IN 2012 TO NEARLY
3,400 LAST YEAR.
BUT IT ALSO FOUND THAT UP TO
26,000 CASES WENT UNREPORTED.
>> I WANT TO CONTINUE --.
>> Suarez: AT A SENATE HEARING
THIS MORNING THE AIR FORCE CHIEF
OF STAFF GENERAL MARK WELCH
STRUCK SPARKS WITH NEW YORK
SENATOR KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND
SUGGESTING IT'S NOT ALWAYS A
COMMANDER'S FAULT IF VICTIMS
DON'T COME FORWARD.
>> THE THINGS THAT CAUSE PEOPLE
TO NOT REPORT ARE PRIMARILY
REALLY NOT CHAIN OF COMMAND.
IT'S -- I DON'T WANT MY FAMILY
TO KNOW.
I DON'T WANT MY SPOUSE TO KNOW
OR MY BOYFRIEND OR GIRLFRIEND TO
KNOW.
I'M EMBARRASSED THAT I'M IN THIS
SITUATION.
IT'S THE SELF-BLAME THAT COMES
WITH THE CRIME.
THAT IS OVERRIDINGLY ON SURVEYS
OVER THE YEARS THE MOST REASONS
VICTIMS DON'T REPORT.
I DON'T THINK IT'S ANY DIFFERENT
IN THE MILITARY.
PROSECUTION RATES IN THE AIR
FORCE FOR THIS CRIME --
>> I THINK IT'S VERY DIFFERENT
IN THE MILITARY.
I THINK YOU'RE PRECISELY WRONG
ABOUT THAT.
EVERYTHING IS ABOUT CHAIN OF
COMMAND.
>> Suarez: THE PRESIDENT SAID
THE MILITARY HAS TO POKES THEN
USULY IALNCREASE ITS EFFORTS TO
ADDRESS THE PROBLEM AND CHUCK
HAGEL ANNOUNCED HE'S ISSUING NEW
ORDERS TO CHANGE THE CULTURE IN
THE RANKS.
>> TODAY EVERYONE.
IN THIS DEPARTMENT AT EVERY
LEVEL OF COMMAND WILL WORK
TOGETHER EVERYDAY TO ESTABLISH
AN ENVIRONMENT OF DIGNITY AND
RESPECT WHERE SEXUAL ASSAULT IS
NOT TOLERATED, CONDONED OR
IGNORED.
>> Reporter: THE PENTAGON REPORT
CAME JUST DAYS AFFLUENT CONNELL
JEFFREY KRUSINSKI WAS HIMSELF
ARRESTED FOR ALLEGEDLY GROPING A
WOMAN.
AND IN FEBRUARY AIR FORCE
LIEUTENANT GENERAL SUSAN HELMS
OVERTURNED A CAPTAIN'S
CONVICTION ON AGGRAVATED SEXUAL
ASSAULT.
NOW MISSOURI SENATOR CLAIRE
McCASKELL IS HOLDING UP HELMS'
NOMINATION FOR VICE CHAIR HE
U.S. SOMEPLACE COMMAND SHE SPOKE
AT TODAY'S HEARING.
>> THE GENERAL SAID NO, NO, WE
BELIEVE THE MEMBER OF THE
MILITARY.
THAT IS THE CRUX OF THE PROBLEM
HERE.
BECAUSE IF A VICTIM DOES NOT
BELIEVE THAT THE SYSTEM IS
CAPABLE OF BELIEVING HER THERE'S
NO POINT IN RISKING YOUR ENTIRE
AREECR.
>> Reporter: IN RESPONSE,
LAWMAKERS ARE PURSUING MULTIPLE
KINDS OF LEGISLATION ON THE
PROBLEM.
ONE COULD STRIP COMMANDING
OFFICERS OF THEIR ABILITY TOO
REVERSE CONVICTIONS.
I'M JOINED NOW BY MARK THOMPSON,
THE WASHINGTON DEPUTY BUREAU
CHIEF AND NATIONAL SECURITY
CORRESPONDENT FOR "TIME" AND
WRITINGER OF THE BATTLELAND
BLOG.
MARK, YOU'VE SEEN THE PENTAGON'S
SELF-REPORTING ON THIS.
DOES THAT
26,000 UNREPORTED ASSAULTS A
YEAR LOOK LIKE A SOLID NUMBER?
WHERE DOES IT COME FROM?
>> IT'S AN EXTRAPOLATED NUMBER
FROM ANONYMOUS PHONE SURVEYS
DONE BY THE PENTAGON OF MILITARY
PEOPLE SO IT'S SORT OF SQUISHY
TO BEGIN WITH.
WHAT'S PARTICULARLY STRIKING
ABOUT THE NUMBER, OF COURSE, IS
FROM 2010 TO TWELVE THAT NUMBER
GREW BY 35% WHEREAS THE HARD
NUMBER, THE NUMBER OF CASES
ACTUALLY BROUGHT FORWARD BY
PEOPLE COMPLAINING ABOUT SEXUAL
ASSAULTS IN THE MILITARY ONLY
WENT UP BY ROUGHLY 6% FROM 3,200
TO
3,400.
SO EVEN THOUGH THEY ARE GETTING
MORE REPORTS THOSE THAT ARE
UNREPORTED ARE GOING UP EVEN
FASTER.
>> Suarez: A NUMBER OF
UNREPORTED CASES NINE TIMES
LARGER THAN THE NUERMB OF
REPORTED CASES, IS THAT BIGGER
THAN THE SERVICE CHIEFS
REALIZED?
>> I THINK IT'S BIGGER THAN WHAT
YOU SEE IN THE CIVILIAN WORLD
WHERE THE PROPORTION OF REPORTED
IS AN ORDER OR TWO BIGGER THAN
WHAT YOU SEE IN THE MILITARY.
BUT THIS IS NOT A NEW PROBLEM.
THIS IS A LONG STANDING PROBLEM.
I WAS ON THIS SHOW 16 YEARS AGO
TALKING ABOUT IT.
IT REMAINS A PROBLEM, WHAT'S
HAPPENING, YOU HAVE ABOUT 14% OF
THE MILITARY IN UNIFORM THAT ARE
WOMEN AND ALL OF A SUDDEN WITH
THESE FEMALE SENATORS, SEVERAL
OF WHICH WE JUST SAW, THIS IS
NOT BEING ABLE TO BE IGNORED BY
THE CHIEFS, SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
OR ANYBODY ELSE IT SEEMS LIKE WE
MAY HAVE REACHED A TURNING POINT
WITH THE ARREST OF THIS AIR
FORCE OFFICER.
>> Suarez: TODAY AT THE NEWS
CONFERENCE OF THE PENTAGON THE
GENERAL IN CHARGE OF OVERSEEING
THE MANAGEMENT OF THIS PROBLEM
FLIPED THIS ON ITS NED A WAY AND
SAID THAT PART OF IT IS THAT
THERE'S MORE REPORTING.
>> YEAH, I THINK --.
>> Suarez: THAT THEY'RE CHANGING
THE CULTURE.
>> TO GO BACK TO WHAT I JUST
SAID, THE MATH SHOWS IT'S GOING
UP FASTENER THE UNREPORTED REALM
THAN IN THE REPORTED REALM.
WE SEE THIS THROUGHOUT THE
MILITARY WHENEVER THERE'S A BAD
PROBLEM, BE IT MENTAL HEALTH
ISSUES, P.T.S.D., ANYTHING THAT
HAS TO BE SELF-REPORTED WHENEVER
THE NUMBERS GO UP THE PENTAGON
IS QUICK TO SAY "IT'S BECAUSE
WE'VE REMOVED STIGMA, PUT SIGNS
ALL OVER THE BASES AND POSTS
ENCOURAGING PEOPLE TO COME
FORWARD."
AND I THINK THERE IS SOME TRUTH
TO THAT BUT ESSENTIALLY IT
REMAINS A HUGE PROBLEM AND
THEY'RE GETTING AT JUST A BIT OF
IT BY REDUCING THE STIGMA.
>> Suarez: AT THE SAME TIME, THE
ARREST OF THE AIR FORCE'S SENIOR
OFFICER IN CHARGE OF GETTING
THOSE NUMBERS DOWN ARRESTED
HIMSELF DURING AN ACCUSED SEXUAL
ASSAULT?
>> THAT IS THE PROBLEM.
THAT'S WHAT STUNNED EVERYBODY I
SPOKE TO AT THE PENTAGON OVER
THE LAST COUPLE OF DAYS.
A COUPLE OF THINGS ABOUT
LIEUTENANT COLONEL KRUZINSKI'S
CASE.
HE WAS PICKED FAR JOB
SPECIFICALLY AND PEOPLE I TALK
TO SUGGEST HE COULDN'T HAVE BEEN
-- YOU KNOW?
F SOMEONE IS RIGHT FOR SUCH A
SENSITIVE POST.
THE AIR FORCE PUT HIM IN THAT
POST.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE ASKING
QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT NOW.
THE AIR FORCE HAS ASKED TO TAKE
THIS CASE AWAY FROM ARLINGTON
COUNTY WHICH IS WHERE THE
PENTAGON IS LOCATED AND
PROSECUTE IT ON THEIR OWN.
WE'LL LEARN MORE ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENS ON THAT STORE COME
THURSDAY.
>> Suarez: YOU MENTIONED THE
FEMALE SENATORS, THERE ARE ALSO
MORE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WILLING
TO PUSH BACK ON THIS ISSUE.
INCLUDING A LEGISLATIVE ATTEMPT
TO TAKE THE ADJUDICATION OF
THESE ISSUES OUT OF THE CHAIN OF
THE COMMAND.
WHAT DOES THE PENTAGON SAY?
>> SECRETARY HAGEL WAS ASKED
ABOUT THAT.
HE DOESN'T LIKE IT.
HE WANTS IT TO STAY WITHIN THE
CHAIN OF COMMAND.
THE ADVOCATES OF CHANGE ARE
SAYING LISTEN, WE'RE NOT GOING
TO TAKE IT OUT OF THE PENTAGON,
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP HIT IN THE
PENTAGON BUT IT WILL BE STAFFED
FOR LACK OF A BETTER WORD BY A
PROFESSIONAL FORCE OF MILITARY
SEXUAL TRAUMA ADVOCATES WHO WILL
BE FAIR, WON'T BE AFFECTED
BECAUSE THEY WON'T BE IN THE
CHAIN OF COMMAND OF THE VICTIM
OR THE ACCUSED AND VICTIMS
THERE, THE ADVOCATES BELIEVE
WILL BE ABLE TO GET A FAIRER
SHOT AT THEIR DAY IN COURT.
HE.
>> Suarez: HOW IS THIS HANDLED
IN OTHER COUNTRY'S MILITARYS
WHERE THEY HAVE AN EVEN HIGHER
PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN THE
RANKS?
>> IT SEEMS TO BE PARTICULARLY
NAGGING PROBLEM IN THE U.S.
MILITARY JUST AS GAYS IN THE
MILITARY WERE.
A BIG PROBLEM HERE WASN'T A
PROBLEM ANYWHERE ELSE.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S
SOMETHINGING IN THE AMERICAN
PSYCHE OR SOMETHING IN THE
AMERICAN MILITARY BUT IT'S A
PARTICULAR COMBINATION THAT HAS
GENERATED THIS FOR A LONG TIME.
>> Suarez: MARK THOMPSON, THANKS
A LOT FOR BEING WITH US.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, MEETING KOREA'S NEW
LEADER; ENGAGING STUDENTS OF ALL
AGES; FEELING THE PINCH FROM
SPENDING CUTS; AND PRESERVING
RECORDED HISTORY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE WALL STREET
RALLY OF 2013 HAS PASSED A NEW
MILESTONE.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
CLOSED ABOVE 15,000 TODAY FOR
THE FIRST TIME.
THE DOW GAINED 87 POINTS TO
FINISH AT 15,056.
IT'S UP 15% THIS YEAR.
THE NASDAQ ROSE THREE POINTS
TODAY TO CLOSE AT 3396.
THREE WOMEN IN CLEVELAND ARE
FREE TODAY AFTER BEING CAPTIVE
FOR YEARS.
THEIR DISCOVERY MONDAY EVENING
COULD CLOSE SEVERAL KIDNAPPING
CASES, BUT IT ALSO RAISED NEW
QUESTIONS FOR POLICE.
>> Reporter:HEE CRS GREETED
POLICE AFTER THE THREE WOMEN WHO
HAD LONG BEEN MISSING WERE FOUND
ALIVE AND APPARENTLY WELL.
IT HAD STARTED WITH A CRY FOR
HELP COMING FROM A RUNDOWN HOME.
NEIGHBOR CHARLES RAMSEY.
>> AND I LOOKED AND I SEE THIS
GIRL AND SHE IS JUST GOING NUTS
ON THE DOOR.
WE HAD TO KICK OPEN THE BOTTOM.
>> Suarez: THEN A STUNNING 911
CALL.
>> HELP ME!
I'M AMANDA BERRY!
I'VE BEEN KIDNAPPED AND MISSING
FOR TEN YEARS AND I'M HERE.
I'M FREE NOW.
>> Suarez: AMANDA BERRY VANISHED
IN 2003 WHEN SHE WAS 16.
SHE IS NOW 27 YEARS OLD.
A SIX-YEAR-OLD GIRL IS RESCUED
AS WELL, BELIEVED TO BE BERRY'S
DAUGHTER.
BUT THERE WAS NO WORD ON THE
IDENTITY OF HER FATHER.
POLICE ALSO FOUND GINA DEJESUS,
KIDNAPPED IN 2004 AND NOW 23.
THE THIRD WOMAN DISCOVERED IN
THE HOUSE IS MICHELLE KNIGHT,
TAKEN IN 2002 AND NOW 32 YEARS
OLD.
INVESTIGATORS DID NOT SAY IF
THEY HAD BEEN RESTRAINED OR
OTHERWISED HARMED.
INSTEAD, THIS MORNING, POLICE
CHIEF MICHAEL McGRATH HAILED THE
NEWS OF THE RESCUE.
>> THANKFULLY-- AND I MEAN
THANKFULLY, DUE TO AMANDA'S
BRAVE ACTIONS THESE THREE WOMEN
ARE ALIVE TODAY.
>> Suarez: THE OWNER OF THE
HOUSE WAS IDENTIFIED AS ARIEL
CASTRO, A 52-YEAR-OLD FORMER
SCHOOL BUS DRIVER, HE WAS
ARRESTED ALONG WITH HIS BROTHERS
PEDRO AND ONIL AFTER OFFICERS
SEARCHED THE.
>> Rodriguez: RESIDENCE.
POLICE HAD GONE TO THE HOUSE
TWICE SINCE 2004 BUT NOT ABOUT
THE KIDNAPPED WOMEN.
THIS MORNING, CLEVELAND MAYOR
FRANK JACKSON SAID THE
INVESTIGATION IS ONGOING.
>> WE HAVE SEVERAL UNANSWERED
QUESTIONS.
WHY WERE THEY TAKEN?
HOW WERE THEY TAKEN AND HOW THEY
REMAIN UNDETECTED IN THE CITY OF
CLEVELAND FOR THIS PERIOD OF
TIME.
>> Reporter: THE THREE WOMEN
SPENT THE NIGHT AT A LOCAL
HOSPITAL.
THEY HAVE BEEN REUNITED WITH
RELATIVES.
>> Sreenivasan: JAMES HOLMES IS
DUE IN COURT NEXT MONDAY.
TWO NEW STUDIES CONCLUDE THAT
GUN KILLINGS IN THE U.S. HAVE
FALLEN BY A LOT OVER THE LAST 20
YEARS.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT REPORTED
TODAY THERE WERE JUST OVER
11,000 GUN HOMICIDES IN 2011.
THAT WAS DOWN 39% FROM THE PEAK
YEAR OF 1993.
THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER FOUND A
SIMILAR DECLINE.
THE TWO STUDIES ALSO SAID NON-
FATAL GUN CRIMES HAVE DROPPED
NEARLY 70% IN THE SAME PERIOD.
AT LEAST 20 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
AND MORE THAN THREE DOZEN
INJURED IN MEXICO CITY EARLY
TODAY, AFTER A NATURAL GAS
TANKER TRUCK LOST CONTROL AND
EXPLODED IN A SUBURB.
MEXICAN TV SHOWED FLAMES
SHOOTING FROM CHARRED HOMES AND
VEHICLES.
OFFICIALS SAID SOME OF THE
INJURED HAVE BURNS OVER MORE
THAN 70% OF THEIR BODIES AND MAY
NEED TREATMENT AT A BURN CENTER
IN TEXAS.
IN NORTHWEST PAKISTAN, THREE
BOMBINGS KILLED AT LEAST 18
PEOPLE IN POLITICAL VIOLENCE
AHEAD OF NATIONAL ELECTIONS
SATURDAY.
IN THE WORST ATTACK, A SUICIDE
BOMBER ON A MOTORCYCLE BLEW
HIMSELF UP NEAR A VEHICLE THAT
CARRIED AN ISLAMIST CANDIDATE.
A DOZEN PEOPLE DIED, BUT THE
CANDIDATE ESCAPED UNHARMED.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WARNED TODAY
THERE ARE NO EASY ANSWERS TO
STOPPING THE VIOLENCE IN SYRIA.
HE ALSO DEFENDED HIS DELIBERATE
APPROACH TO POSSIBLE MILITARY
ACTION.
HE SAID HE WANTS THE BEST
POSSIBLE ANALYSIS OF EVIDENCE
THAT THE ASSAD REGIME USED
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
MEANWHILE, SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY MET WITH PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN IN MOSCOW.
KERRY SAID THEY'LL TRY TO GET
THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT AND
OPPOSITION TO ATTEND A PEACE
CONFERENCE.
CHINA DENIED TODAY THAT IT
SPONSORS CYBER-ATTACKS ON U.S.
DEFENSE NETWORKS.
THAT ACCUSATION CAME MONDAY IN
AN ANNUAL PENTAGON REPORT.
FOR THE FIRST TIME, IT DIRECTLY
ATTRIBUTED ATTACKS ON U.S.
COMPUTER SYSTEMS TO THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT AND MILITARY.
TODAY CHINA'S FOREIGN MINISTRY
FIRMLY REJECTED THE CHARGE.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: AND WE RETURN TO THE
SITUATION ON THE KOREAN
PENINSULA, AS THE THREAT OF
FURTHER ESCALATION LOOMED OVER A
WHITE HOUSE SUMMIT TODAY.
THE DAY BEGAN WITH A NEW WARNING
ON NORTH KOREAN STATE TELEVISION
AIMED AT JOINT U.S./SOUTH KOREAN
NAVAL DRILLS IN THE YELLOW SEA.
>> ( translated ): FIRST KOREAN
PEOPLE ARE MEETING IN THE
SOUTHWESTERN SECTOR OF THE FRONT
WILL TAKE IMMEDIATE
COUNTERACTION INN CASE A SINGLE
SHELL DROPPED OVER THE
TERRITORIAL WATERS ON OUR SIDE.
SECOND, IN CASE THE ENEMIES
RECKLESSLY ENCOUNTER OUR
COUNTERSTRIKE ALL FORCES WILL
TURN THE FIVE ISLANDS IN THE
WEST SEA OF KOREA INTO A SEA OF
FLAMES.
IS.
>> Brown: THE NEW THREAT OF FROM
THE NORTH AND ITS YOUNG LEADER
KIM JONG-UN FOLLOWS SEVERAL
MONTHS OF TALK AND ACTIONS.
WHILE THE U.S. AND SOUTH KOREA
CONDUCTED JOINT MILITARY
EXERCISES THAT WE SEEN IN TURN
AS PROVOCATIONS BY THE NORTH.
IN DECEMBER, NORTH KOREA TEST
LAUNCHED A LONG-RANGE ROCKET IN
FEBRUARY IT CARRIED OUT ANOTHER
UNDERGROUND NUCLEAR TEST, ITS
THIRD TO DATE.
AND WHEN THE U.N. SECURITY
COUNCIL IMPOSED NEW SANCTIONS AS
A RESULT THE NORTH RENOUNCED THE
ARMISTICE THAT ENDED THE KOREAN
WAR AND INSISTED IT WOULD FIRE
OFF MORE MID-RANGE MISSILES.
DESPITE NORTH KOREA'S THREAT,
THERE WERE NO LAUNCHES AND U.S.
OFFICIALS NOW REPORT THE NORTH
HAS REMOVED THE WEAPONS FROM A
LAUNCH SITE.
AGAINST THAT BACKDROP, PRESIDENT
OBAMA HELD A WHITE HOUSE SUMMIT
TODAY WITH SOUTH KOREA'S NEW
PRESIDENT, PARK GUEN-HYE
FOLLOWED BY A JOINT NEWS
CONFERENCE
>> THE DAYS WHEN NORTH KOREA
COULD CREATE A CRISIS AND
ILLICIT CONCESSIONS, THOSE DAYS
ARE OVER.
OUR TWO NATIONS ARE PREPARED TO
DEAL WITH NORTH KOREA
DIPLOMATICALLY BUT AS PRESIDENT
PARK HAS MADE CLEAR, THE BURDEN
IS ON PYONGYANG TO TAKE
MEANINGFUL STEPS.
>> ( translated ): WE WILL BE NO
MEANS TOLERATE NORTH KOREA'S
THREATS AND PROVOCATIONS WHICH
HAVE RECENTLY BEEN ESCALATING
FURTHER AND THAT SUCH ACTIONS
WOULD ONLY DEEPEN NORTH KOREA'S
ISOLATION.
>> Suarez:.
>> Brown: PARK TOOK OFFICE IN
FEBRUARY.
SHE'S THE DAUGHTER OF A MAN WHO
TOOK POWER IN A MILITARY COUP
AND RULED SOUTH KOREA IN THE
1960s' AND '70s BEFORE BEING
ASSASSINATED.
THE NEW PRESIDENT CAME TO POWER
SEEKING TO IMPROVE RELATIONS
WITH THE NORTH BUT HER TONE HAS
CHANGED WE VENTS.
IN AN INTERVIEW WITH CBS NEWS
YESTERDAY, PARK WARNED THAT HER
COUNTRY WILL MEET ANY AGGRESSION
IN KIND.
>> ( translated ): YES, WE WILL
MAKE THEM PAY.
>> Brown: STILL, PRESIDENT PARK
SAID IF THE NORTH RELENTS ON ITS
NUCLEAR PROGRAM SHE'S PREPARED
TO RESUME AID SHIPMENTS AND
ECONOMIC INITIATIVES.
WE'RE JOINED NOW BY TWO FORMER
DIPLOMATS WITH EXTENSIVE
EXPERIENCE DEALING WITH NORTH
AND SOUTH KOREA.
KURT CAMPBELL WAS ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR EAST
ASIAN AND PACIFIC AFFAIRS DURING
THE FIRST OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
HE NOW HAS A CONSULTING COMPANY.
AND DONALD GREGG WAS U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH KOREA DURING
THE GEORGE H.W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW CHAIRMAN OF THE PACIFIC
CENTURY INSTITUTE.
KURT CAMPBELL, I WANT TO START
WITH YOU.
THE NORTH KOREANS COME OUT WITH
THE A NEW WARNING TODAY.
YOU SEE PRESIDENT PARK SAY "WE
WILL MAKE EM THPAY."
WHAT DO WE MAKE OF THE LEVEL OF
AT LEAST AGGRESSIVE TALK?
>> WELL, LOOK.
THERE'S CLEARLY A RITUAL QUALITY
TO THIS.
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR
MONTHS.
I THINK THE MORE SIGNIFICANT
LANGUAGE IS NOT FROM THE NORTH
BUT FROM THE SOUTH WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN SOUTH KOREA IS THAT
THE TOLERANCE FOR THIS KIND OF
BEHAVIOR HAS DECREASED VERY
SUBSTANTIALLY IN THE PAST, THE
SOUTH HAS BEEN PREPARED TO TAKE
THESE INDIGNITIES, THESE
PROVOCATIONS SOMETIMES IN
STRIDE.
IT'S DIFFICULT BUT TO ACCEPT
THEM.
I THINK THERE IS A GROWING SENSE
IN SOUTH KOREA THAT IF THEY ARE
PRESENTED WITH AN OPPORTUNITY TO
STRIKE THE THIS NORTH THEY WILL
TAKE IT AND PARTICULARLY MADAM
PARK WHO'S COME TO POWER WITH A
CLEAR DETERMINATION TO REACH OUT
TO THE NORTH FIND HERSELF IN A
CIRCUMSTANCE WHERE SHE HAS BEEN
REALLY PURPOSELY UNDERMINED IN
THAT EFFORT BY THE PROVOCATIONS
OF PYONGYANG.
>> Brown: DONALD GREGG, HOW DO
YOU SEE THE SITUATION?
IF YOU SEE IT SIMILARLY,S WHERE
THAT COMING FROM IN SOUTH KOREA
WITH THAT STANCE THAT WE'RE
SEEING?
>>
>> WELL, I WAS VERY SORRY TO
HEAR SOME OF THE RIGHT WING
GROUPS IN SOUTH KOREA TALK ABOUT
THE DESIRABILITY OF HAVING
NUCLEAR WEAPONS DEVELOP INN
SOUTH KOREA.
WHEN I WAS AMBASSADOR I MOVED TO
GET OUR NUCLEAR WEAPONS OUT OF
THE SOUTH AND I'M APPALLED AT
THE IDEA THAT THERE ARE PEOPLE
IN THE SOUTH WHO THINK THEY NEED
THEM THEMSELVES.
I THINK THE MEETING TODAY
BETWEEN THE TWO PRESIDENTS GETS
THEM OFF TO A GOOD START.
I THINK THAT'S TERRIBLY
IMPORTANT BUT THERE'S AN AWFUL
LOT OF WORK LEFT TO BE DONE TO
RESTART SOME KIND OF CONTACT
WITH NORTH KOREA AND I WOULD
THINK THE FIRST THING THAT NEEDS
TO BE DONE IS TO REOPEN THE CASE
ON THE ECONOMIC SECTION JUST
ABOVE THE -- ALONG THE DEEM SEE
WHERE ALMOST
50,000 NORTH KOREANS WERE VERY
EFFECTIVELY PUT TO WORK BY SOUTH
KOREAN ECONOMIC FIRMS.
>> Brown: YOU BOTH MET PRESIDENT
PARK.
I'LL ASK YOU, KURT CAMPBELL,
WHAT'S THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
FOR US TO KNOW ABOUT HER?
>> WELL, IT'S DIFFICULT TO SAY.
SY TALKED WITH HER WHEN SHE WAS
A CANDIDATE.
I WAS PART OF THE DELEGATION
THAT MET WITH HER DURING THE
TRANSITION.
WE'VE KNOWN HER FOR YEARS.
SHE'S VERY SOBER, VERY CAREFUL.
HER WHOLE LIFE HAS BEEN ABOUT
SERVICE TO SOUTH KOREA ST. YOU
TOUCHED ON THE TRAGIC DEATH OF
HER PARENTS.
I THINK SHE CAME TO POWER WITH A
PRAGMATIC SENSE SHE WANTED TV
CONSTRUCTIVE DIPLOMACY WITH
NORTH KOREA.
I AGREE WITH AMBASSADOR GREGG
THAT THAT'S A DESIRE FIRST.
I THINK SHE AND HER ADVISORS
HAVE BEEN A LITTLE BIT SURPRISED
AT HOW RELUCTANT AND DIFFICULT,
IF YOU WILL, THE NORTH KOREANS
HAVE BEEN IN THE OPENING GAMBIT.
IF YOU LOOK HISTORICALLY, NORTH
KOREAN LEADERS ALMOST ALWAYS
TEST NEW SOUTH KOREAN PRESIDENTS
DURING THE OPENING MONTHS.
>> THEY'RE BOTH NEW, AREN'T
THEY?
>> THAT'S RIGHT, BUT FRANKLY
EVEN THOUGH YOU MIGHT EXPECT
THAT HISTORICALLY, WHEN YOU'RE
IN THE MIDST OF IT AND YOU'RE
DEALING WITH REALLY A VERY
UNPREDICTABLE YOUNG LEADER IT
CAN BE SOMEWHAT UNNERVING.
>> Brown: THE DONALD GREGG, WHEN
PRESIDENT PARK AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA TALKED ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY STILL OF TALKS WITH
NORTH KOREA WHERE IS THE
POTENTIAL AT THIS POINT?
>>
>> WELL, I THINK A LOT OF THAT
HAVE IS INSIDE PARK GUEN-HYE.
I MET HER FIRST WHEN I WAS
STATIONED IN SEOUL IN THE
MID-'70s.
I WAS THERE WHEN HER MOTHER WAS
SHOT BY A NORTH KOREAN AGENT
AIMING AT HER FATHER BUT MISSED
HER FATHER AND KILLED HER
MOTHER.
SHE WENT TO NORTH KOREA IN 2001
AND MET WITH KIM JONG-IL AND I
MET HER IN SOUTH KOREA IN 2002
AND CONGRATULATED HER FOR GOING
AND I'LL NEVER FORGET HER
RESPONSE.
SHE SAID "YOU MUST LOOK TO THE
FUTURE WITH HOPE, NOT TO THE
PAST WITH BITTERNESS.
I THINK SHE CARRIES THAT INSIDE
HER.
I THINK SHE HAS A LOT MORE
POLITICAL LEEWAY TO MAKE SOME
MOVES TOWARD THE NORTH TO GET
THINGS GOING.
AND I COME BACK TO KAESONG AS
SOMETHING THAT WORKED TO THE
BENEFIT OF BOTH OF THEIR SIDES
THERE ARE ALSO TRACK TWO
ACTIVITIES THAT CAN BE
ENCOURAGED.
THERE WAS A SCIENTIFIC
CONSORTIUM AND THE NORTH KOREANS
CAME UP WITH SIX OR SEVEN
AGRICULTURALLY RELATED
SCIENTIFIC ISSUES THAT THEY
WOULD LIKE TO DISCUSS WITH THE
WEST.
SO IF WE CAN GET BEYOND THIS
PERIOD OF SHRILL RHETORIC I
THINK THERE ARE WAYS OF QUIETLY
STARTING SOME THINGS WHICH CAN
ACT AS CONFIDENCE-BUILDING
MEASURES AND CREATE TRUST WHERE
ABSOLUTELY NO TRUST SEEMS TO
EXIST.
SNUPT KURT CAMPBELL?
>> I WOULD AGREE WITH THAT
GENERALLY.
I THINK WHAT AMBASSADOR GREG HAS
OUTLINED IS THE RIGHT APPROACH.
I WILL SAY, THOUGH, THAT WHEN
THE ORIGINAL CONCEPTION OF THIS
ECONOMIC ENGAGEMENT WAS
DISCUSSED OVER A DECADE AGO THE
IDEA WAS FOR NORTH/SOUTH
ECONOMIC ENGAGEMENT.
IF YOU LOOK AT CAISSON, IT WAS A
VERY CONTAINED EFFORT IN WHICH
WORKERS WORK AND THEY'RE KEPT
APART FROM OTHER NORTH KOREANS
AND SO IT'S REALLY A CONTAINED
--
>> Pelley:.
>> Brown: SO IT NEVER BECAME
WHAT ONE MIGHT HAVE THOUGHT?
>> I DON'T THINK IT HAS BEEN AS
-- IT HAS NOD SERVED AS THE KIND
OF EPPING ANYONE HAD HOPED FOR.
WHAT THE NORTH IS STILL
STRUGGLING WITH IS THAT THEY'RE
DEEPLY WARY OF ANY KIND OF
ECONOMIC REFORM BECAUSE OF FEAR
THAT IT WILL UNDERMINE THE
LEADERSHIP OF THE KIM FAMILY.
>> Brown: DONALD GREGG, IN OUR
LAST MINUTE HERE, DO WE KNOW
MORE ABOUT THE LEADER OF NORTH
KOREA AT THIS POINT?
ENOUGH TO KNOW WHETHER WE CAN
GET PAST THIS POINT?
>> I THINK HE'S QUITE A
HIGH-STAKES POKER PLAYER.
I WISH WE HAD INVITED HIM TO THE
UNITED STATES IN 2009 AS I
SUGGESTED.
I THINK HIS FATHER MADE A WISE
CHOICE IN CHOOSING HIM.
I THINK HE'S SMART.
I THINK HE'S TOUGH.
I THINK HIS OVER-THE-TOP
RHETORIC HAS AT LEAST
ESTABLISHED HIS OWN STABILITY
WITHIN INCOME.
HE'S GOING TO BE AROUND FOR A
LONG TIME AND WE HAVE TO FIND
WAYS TO GET IN TOUCH WITH HIM
AND MOVE TOWARDS SOME FORM OF
TRUST POLL TEAK TO USE PARK
GUEN-HYE'S OWN TERM FOR HER
NORTH KOREAN POLICY.
>> Brown: DONALD GREGG AND KURT
CAMPBELL, THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> PLEASURE.
>> Suarez: NEXT, THE SECOND OF
TWO STORIES ON HOW TO BETTER
ENGAGE STUDENTS IN THE WORLD OF
SCIENCE.
LAST NIGHT WE REPORTED ON A
SCIENCE PROGRAM IN MAINE THAT
ENCOURAGES PROBLEM-SOLVING.
TONIGHT NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT
SPENCER MICHELS VISITS ONE OF
THE NATION'S MOST SUCCESSFUL
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CENTERS,
ONE THAT'S RECENTLY MOVED AND
REOPENED IN CALIFORNIA.
OUR STORY WAS JOINTLY PRODUCED
WITH OUR PBS COLLEAGUES AT KQED-
SAN FRANCISCO.
>> Reporter: POPULAR SCIENCE CAN
BE COOL, INTRIGUING AND
INSPIRATIONAL.
THAT'S THE OPERATING PRINCIPAL
AT THE NEW EXPLORATORIUM IN SAN
FRANCISCO, A $300 MILLION
BUILDING THAT JUST OPENED ON SAN
FRANCISCO'S WATERFRONT, DESIGNED
TO ATTRACT A MILLION KIDS AND
THEIR PARENTS A YEAR.
SOME OF THE NEW EXHIBITS HAVE AN
ARTISTIC BENT.
AND SOME ARE SEEMINGLY SIMPLE
DISPLAYS WHERE YOU HAVE TO
SEARCH TO FIND THE SCIENCE.
>> IT'S SAND ON TOP OF A
ROTATING DISK.
IT ACTUALLY SHOWS THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN LINEAR MOTION AND
ROTATIONAL MOTION.
>> Reporter: PHYSICIST ROB
SEMPER IS ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF
THE EXPLORATORIUM.
>> THE POINT IS HAVING THESE
EXPERIENCES.
RICH EXPERIENCES IS KEY TO
REALLY BEING EXCITED ABOUT WHAT
YOU'RE DOING.
WE DON'T KNOW WHERE IT WILL
HAPPEN, BUT THERE'S SO MANY
EXHIBITS HERE.
WE HOPE IT WILL HAPPEN TO
EVERYBODY AT ONE EXHIBIT OR
ANOTHER.
>> Reporter: THE NEW
EXPLORATORIUM HAS 600 EXHIBITS,
150 NEW ONES.
AMONG THEM IS A WHIMSICAL STATUE
OF FRANK OPPENHEIMER, FOUNDER OF
THE CENTER IN 1969, AND THE
BROTHER OF J. ROBERT
OPPENHEIMER, WHO PIONEERED THE
ATOMIC BOMB.
FOR 44 YEARS, THE INSTITUTION
WAS HOUSED IN THE LANDMARK
PALACE OF FINE ARTS.
FRANK'S IDEA-- REVOLUTIONARY AT
THE TIME-- WAS TO TAKE A NEW
APPROACH TO SCIENCE LEARNING,
OUTSIDE OF SCHOOL.
>> FRANK REALLY FELT THAT PEOPLE
NEED TO EXPLORE SCIENCE ON THEIR
OWN, NOT NECESSARILY IN THE
CLASSROOM, IN A CURRICULUM.
SO I THINK FRANK HAD THE IDEA
THAT PEOPLE WOULD COME TO THESE
PLACES MORE THAN ONCE.
>> I DON'T REMEMBER EVERY TIME
SINCE I'VE BEEN A KID, BUT I
THINK MORE THAN... DEFINITELY
MORE THAN 50 TIMES.
>> Reporter: IT WAS A NEW
CONCEPT THAT SPREAD ACROSS THE
COUNTRY AND THE WORLD.
THERE ARE 800 SCIENCE CENTERS
TODAY-- PLACES WHERE YOU CAN
TOUCH EVERYTHING, GET YOUR HANDS
DIRTY, AND EXPERIENCE SCIENTIFIC
PHENOMENA FIRSTHAND.
>> IT'S JUST THE AMBIANCE, THE
OPENNESS, THE WAREHOUSE FEEL.
IT'S NOT MANUFACTURED.
IT'S JUST A NEAT PLACE TO BE.
>> YOU COULD NEVER DO TT WIHATH
A REGULAR MAGNET.
>> Reporter: PAUL DOHERTY IS A
STAFF SENIOR SCIENTIST WHO
THINKS HE GETS WHAT FRANK
OPPENHEIMER WAS LOOKING FOR.
>> AS SOON AS A PERSON COMES
OVER AND BEGINS TO INTERACT WITH
IT, THAT BRINGS THE EXHIBIT TO
LIFE.
WE KNOW WE HAVE A GOOD EXHIBIT
WHEN THE PERSON LAUGHS AND TURNS
AROUND AND SAYS TO ANYBODY
PASSING, "HEY, LOOK AT THIS."
THAT'S A GOOD EXHIBIT.
>> Reporter: AS THE
EXPLORATORIUM MATURED, IT
EXPANDED, EXPORTING ITS MODEL
AROUND THE WORLD.
AND WHEN IT COULDN'T EXPAND, IT
SOUGHT SPACE ELSEWHERE.
WITH MUCH FANFARE, THE NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION LAUNCHED ITS NEW
HIGH-TECH, SOLAR-POWERED
BUILDING ON A REFURBISHED PIER
ON THE SAN FRANCISCO WATERFRONT.
TICKETS ARE $25 FOR ADULTS, $19
FOR CHILDREN.
AS BEFORE, THE MUSEUM IS A
COMBINATION OF FUN AND SCIENCE.
HERE YOU CAN SEE WHAT HAPPENS IF
BOTH SIDES OF YOUR FACE WERE THE
SAME.
FOR ALL ITS SUCCESS, THE
EXPLORATORIUM-- AND OTHER
SCIENCE CENTERS LIKE IT-- RAISE
INTERESTING QUESTIONS.
WHAT IS THE BEST WAY FOR KIDS TO
LEARN SCIENCE?
DO THESE CENTERS SUPPLEMENT OR
REPLACE WHAT GOES ON IN SCHOOL?
>> SCHOOL IS VERY IMPORTANT.
READING AND TEXTBOOKS ARE VERY
IMPORTANT TO LEARN SCIENCE.
>> Reporter: BUT, SEMPER SAYS,
SCHOOL IS NOT ENOUGH.
>> HAVING A REAL EXPERIENCE IS
ALSO IMPORTANT.
SO YOU ACTUALLY NEED BOTH.
AND IN FACT, LABORATORIES IN
SCHOOLS OFTEN DON'T DO ENOUGH TO
HELP PEOPLE REALLY EXPERIENCE
SOME OF THE PHENOMENON ON THEIR
OWN.
>> Reporter: TAKE THIS TINKERING
CLOCK, FOR EXAMPLE.
CAN IT TEACH KIDS SCIENCE?
>> I'VE SEEN PEOPLE STARE AT THE
MECHANISM, GET REALLY INTRIGUED
BY HOW DOES THAT WORK.
WHY DID IT DO IT WHAT WAY?
>> Reporter: ONE OF THE MOST
POPULAR EXHIBITS AT THE OLD AND
THE NEW EXPLORATORIUMS IS A HUGE
MIRROR THAT VISITORS CAN WATCH
FOR HOURS.
>> IT'S A MIRROR THAT WAS
ACTUALLY BUILT FOR NASA FOR A
SPACE SHUTTLE FOR A FLIGHT
SIMULATOR.
WHEN YOU WALK TOWARDS IT, ALL OF
A SUDDEN YOUR HEAD APPEARS
UPSIDE DOWN, BECAUSE IT'S A
CURVED MIRROR.
IT ALSO MAKES YOUR SOUND BE
MAGNIFIED.
WE FIND PEOPLE THEN TRY TO
FIGURE OUT, HOW DOES IT WORK?
THE MUSEUM FLOOR IS OUR
EXPERIMENTAL SPACE, AND WE STUDY
HOW PEOPLE LEARN.
WE STUDY HOW TO MAKE BETTER
EXHIBITS.
>> Reporter: BUT WHILE BIG
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CENTERS
LIKE THE EXPLORATORIUM CAN BE
EXCITING AND ATTRACT THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE, SOME EDUCATORS SAY A
SMALLER, LESS EXPENSIVE APPROACH
TO OUT-OF-SCHOOL LEARNING, WITH
MORE EMPHASIS ON POOR AND
UNDERSERVED KIDS, CAN BE JUST AS
EFFECTIVE IN SUPPLEMENTING WHAT
HAPPENS IN SCHOOL.
DAN SUDRAN RUNS THE MISSION
SCIENCE WORKSP INHO SAN
FRANCISCO IN A FORMER HIGH
SCHOOL AUTO SHOP.
MUCH OF THE MATERIAL AVAILABLE
HERE HE GATHERED HIMSELF, ON A
TIGHT BUDGET.
FOR THE KIDS HE SERVES, IT IS
ESSENTIALLY FREE.
ITS GOALS ARE SIMILAR TO THE
EXPLORATORIUM'S, SAYS ITS
FOUNDER, BUT NOT COMPLETELY.
>> SOME PEOPLE COME IN AND SAY,
"THIS IS A MESS."
I SAID, "YEAH, BUT IT'S A
CONTROLLED MESS."
BUT WHEN KIDS REALIZE IT'S OKAY
TO HAVE SOMETHING OF A MESS,
IT'S KIND OF LIKE OKAY TO JUST
MAKE MISTAKES, BECAUSE THE WORLD
IS KIND OF A MESS.
I WANT ALL FOUR OF YOUR GUYS TO
FIGURE OUT YOUR ENVIRONMENT.
>> Reporter: SUDRAN BEGAN HIS
WORKSHOP TWO DECADES AGO, AND IT
SEE MORMSE DOWN AND DIRTY THAN
ITS UPSCALE COUSIN ACROSS TOWN.
TODAY A CLASS OF FOURTH-GRADERS
WALKED A FEW BLOCKS FROM A
NEARBY SCHOOL, TO LEARN ABOUT
ANIMAL HABITATS.
>> A LOT OF THE TEACHERS WHO
COME HERE FEEL SOMEWHAT
OVERWHELMED, BECAUSE THEY HAVE
SO MANY OTHER THINGS TO TEACH.
MANY OF THEM DON'T HAVE A
BACKGROUND THAT MAKES THEM
CONFIDENT IN TEACHING IT.
THEY ALSO REALIZE THAT THERE'S
SOMETHING SPECIAL ABOUT SCIENCE
THAT IT DOESN'T WORK TO JUST
DOWNLOAD KNOWLEDGE.
FOURTH-GRADE TEACHER ROBERT
SAVANT SAYS HE NEEDS MORE
SUPPORT IF HE'S TO TEACH SCIENCE
IN A ROBUST FASHION.
>> I CAN TEACH AND TEACH IN
CLASS, AND THEY'LL GET A
PORTION, BUT HERE IT REALLY
CEMENTS WHAT I'VE TAUGHT IN
CLASS.
AND YOU FIND THAT LOTS OF KIDS
ARE NOT JUST VISUAL LEARNERS,
THEY'RE NOT JUST ORAL LEARNERS.
THEY NEED TO BE ABLE TO TOUCH.
THIS IS A LITTLE MORE ACCESSIBLE
FOR LOWER SOCIAL ECONOMIC KIDS
THAN SAY THE EXPLORATORIUM.
>> Reporter: SUDRAN'S SELF-
IMPOSED MISSION IS TO REACH KIDS
IN NEED AND KIDS WHO LIVE TOO
FAR AWAY TO VISIT THE
EXPLORATORIUM.
>> WHAT WE'RE DOING IS GOING
INTO PRIMARILY POOR
NEIGHBORHOODS AND CITIES IN
CALIFORNIA.
THE EXPLORATORIUM HAS BEEN
HELPFUL TO US.
THEY'VE GIVEN US STUFF.
BUT, LIKE I SAY, I'M JUST A
LITTLE BIT OF A NAGGER, A
NITPICKER, AND I SAY, WHY SUCH A
CONCENTRATION OF RESOURCES?
I'M WORKING IN EAST SIDE OF
SALINAS, DOWN IN FRESNO COUNTY
ALSO, AND THOSE KIDS, THEY MIGHT
AS WELL BE 10,000 MILES AWAY
FROM SAN FRANCISCO.
THE EXPLORATORIUM HAS THIS $300
MILLION CAPITAL FUND.
IF WE COULD GET 1% OF THAT, 1%,
$3 MILLION, WE COULD START 30
COMMUNITY SCIENCE WORKSHOPS IN
TOWNS THAT I COULD NAME RIGHT
NOW IN CALIFORNIA.
>> Reporter: FOR ITS PART, THE
EXPLORATORIUM SENDS EDUCATORS
INTO UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES IN
THE BAY AREA AND BEYOND TO BRING
HANDS-ON SCIENCE TO CHILDREN.
IT ALLOWS FREE ENTRY TO THOSE
WHO CAN'T AFFORD IT, PLUS IT HAS
AN EXTENSIVE TRAINING PROGRAM
FOR TEACHERS.
PHYSICIST LINDA SHORE DIRECTS
THE TEACHER INSTITUTE.
>> SO THEY COME TO US AND WE
TEACH THEM LITERALLY HOW TO TAKE
THESE LARGE $50,000 EXHIBITS AND
MAKE SMALL TABLE TOP VERSIONS OF
THEM FOR THEIR CLASSROOMS, SO
THAT THEIR STUDENTS LITERALLY
HAVE AN EXPERIENCE WITH ANY
EXHIBIT THAT THEY THEMSELVES
HAVE BUILT.
>> Reporter: THE WIDE GOAL OF
BOTH THE EXPLORATORIUM AND THE
MISSION SCIENCE WORKSHOP IS
BASICALLY THE SAME: NOT TO
REPLACE SCHOOL, BUT TO INSPIRE A
KEEN INTEREST IN SCIENCE BY
PIQUING THE IMAGINATIONS OF
CHILDREN, PARENTS, AND TEACHERS.
AND BOTH INSTITUTIONS HAVE
EXISTED LONG ENOUGH TO SHOW THAT
THEY WORK.
>> Brown: ONLINE, SEE HOW THE
MISSION SCIENCE WORKSHOP USES
FROZEN ROADKILL AND HARVESTED
WHALE BONES TO INSPIRE STUDENTS.
>> Suarez: NOW, AN UPDATE ON THE
IMPACT OF FEDERAL SPENDING CUTS
KNOWN AS THE SEQUESTER.
THE GOVERNMENT MUST REDUCE
SPENDING IN MILITARY AND
DOMESTIC PROGRAMS ACROSS-THE-
BOARD BY $85 BILLION THIS YEAR.
THE LATEST FALLOUT: FEDERAL
OFFICIALS ANNOUNCED TODAY
THEY'RE POSTPONING AUCTIONS FOR
NEW OIL AND GAS LEASES IN
CALIFORNIA.
THOSE BIDS WERE PLANNED FOR AN
AREA THAT FEATURES ONE OF THE
LARGESS DEPOSITS OF SHALE OIL IN
THE COUNTRY.
STAFFING AND BUDGET PROBLEMS
WERE DECIDED AS ONE OF THE
SEVERAL REASONS FOR THE
DECISIONS BUT WHEN IT COMES TO
TRACKING THE EFFECT OF THE
SEQUESTER IT'S A TRICKY THING.
WHILE SOME CUTS HAVE ALREADY HIT
OTHERS ARE STILL TO COME AND
SOME MAY BE AVOIDED.
ONE OF THE MOST IMMEDIATE AND
VISIBLE CHANGES: FURLOUGHS FOR
AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLERS THAT LED
TO FLIGHT DELAYS ENDED WITHIN A
WEEK OF WHEN THE CUTS TOOK
EFFECT.
THAT'S BECAUSE CONGRESS AND THE
PRESIDENT SIGNED A BILL QUICKLY
PROVIDING NEW RELIEF FOR THE
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION.
SOME OTHER FURLOUGHS SUCH AS AT
THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAVE BEEN
AVOIDED THROUGH BUDGETARY
MANEUVERS.
BUT THE PRESIDENT MAINTAINS
INCREMENTAL FIXES ARE THE WRONG
APPROACH TO THE SEQUESTER
>> WHAT'S CLEAR IS THE ONLY WAY
WE'RE GOING TO LIFT IT IS IF WE
DO A BIGGER DEAL THAT MEETS THE
TEST OF LOWERING OUR DEFICIT AND
GROWING OUR ECONOMY AT THE SAME
TIME AND THAT WILL REQUIRE SOME
COMPROMISES ON THE PART OF BOTH
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS.
>> WITH NO COMPROMISE IN SIGHT,
COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
ARE BRACING FOR QUESTER TO KICK
IN DURING THE COMING WEEKS.
WORKERS AT THIS NAVAL FACILITY
IN THE TOWN OF CRANE IN SOUTHERN
INDIANA, FOR EXAMPLE, ARE
PROTESTING PENDING FURLOUGHS OF
CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IS
FACING THE PROSPECTS OF CUTTING
MORE THAN $40 BILLION.
SOCIAL PROGRAMS IN OTHER STATES
ARE ALREADY TAKING A HIT.
IN MONOMOUTH COUNTY, NEW JERSEY,
THE LOCAL MEALS ON WHEELS
PROGRAM HAS HALTED HIRING AND
TAKING ON NEW DELIVERY ROUTES TO
NEEDY SENIORS.
FEDERAL FUNDING CURRENTLY COVERS
MORE THAN 60% OF THE PROGRAM'S
COSTS.
NOW OFFICIALS ARE ARE WAITING TO
SEE HOW MUCH MONEY IS CUT IN THE
WEEKS AHEAD.
IN WASHINGTON, SOME CUTBACKS ARE
ALREADY VIBLEIS.
THE WHITE HOUSE BEGAN CANCELING
TOURS TO THE PUBLIC IN MARCH.
WOULD BE VISITORS ARE NOW
ENCOURAGED TO TAKE A VIRTUAL
TOUR ONLINE.
LAST WEEK THE SMITHSONIAN
ANNOUNCE LEAD THE EXHIBIT AREAS
WOULD BE CLOSED THROUGH
SEPTEMBER CITING A REDUCTION IN
A SECURITY CONTRACT.
FOR MORE WE TURN TO COLLEAGUES
FROM ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
FOR MORE, WE TURN TO COLLEAGUES
GENE GRANT IS WITH NEW MEXICO
FROM ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
PBS, GRETCHEN FRAZEE IS WITH
GENE GRANT IS WITH NEW MEXICO
WTIU AT INDIANA PUBLIC MEDIA,
PBS, GRETCHEN FRAZEE IS WITH
AND FLO JONIC IS A REPORTER AT
WTIU AT INDIANA PUBLIC MEDIA,
RHODE ISLAND PUBLIC RADIO.
AND FLO JONIC IS A REPORTER AT
LET'S GO FROM EAST TO WEST AND
RHODE ISLAND PUBLIC RADIO.
CHECK ON HOW THE EFFECTS OF THE
LET'S GO FROM EAST TO WEST AND
SQESER ARE BEING SEEN WHERE YOU
CHECK ON HOW THE EFFECTS OF THE
LIVE AND WORK.
SQESER ARE BEING SEEN WHERE YOU
SO WE'LL START IN RHODE ISLAND
LIVE AND WORK.
WITH YOU, FLO.
SO WE'LL START IN RHODE ISLAND
>> THE EFFECTS OF THE
WITH YOU, FLO.
SEQUESTRATION CUTS WERE FIRST
>> THE EFFECTS OF THE
FELT IN RHODE ISLAND BY
SEQUESTRATION CUTS WERE FIRST
8,000 LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYMENT
FELT IN RHODE ISLAND BY
PEOPLE.
8,000 LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYMENT
AT TWO WEEKS AGO THEY SUSTAINED
PEOPLE.
A $40 A WEEK BENEFIT CUT.
AT TWO WEEKS AGO THEY SUSTAINED
THAT MAY NOT SOUND LIKE A LOT
A $40 A WEEK BENEFIT CUT.
BUT IT IS WHEN YOU CONSIDER WE
THAT MAY NOT SOUND LIKE A LOT
LIVE IN A FAIRLY EXPENSIVE PART
BUT IT IS WHEN YOU CONSIDER WE
OF THE COUNTRY.
LIVE IN A FAIRLY EXPENSIVE PART
AND THE BENEFIT IN RHODE ISLAND
OF THE COUNTRY.
IS ONLY $3.69.
AND THE BENEFIT IN RHODE ISLAND
MOST OF ARE CUTS ARE STILL
IS ONLY $3.69.
AHEAD.
MOST OF ARE CUTS ARE STILL
HEAD START WILL LOSE 200 OF ITS.
AHEAD.
THEY'RE GOING TO DO IT BY
HEAD START WILL LOSE 200 OF ITS.
SERVING THE NEEDIEST CHILDREN.
THEY'RE GOING TO DO IT BY
THAT MEANS A LOT OF POOR
SERVING THE NEEDIEST CHILDREN.
CHILDREN WILL BE GOING TO
THAT MEANS A LOT OF POOR
KINDERGARTEN WITHOUT BENEFITS TO
CHILDREN WILL BE GOING TO
THIS PROGRAM.
KINDERGARTEN WITHOUT BENEFITS TO
4,000 RHODE ISLANDERS NEXT
THIS PROGRAM.
WINTER WILL LOSE HEATING
4,000 RHODE ISLANDERS NEXT
ASSISTANCE.
WINTER WILL LOSE HEATING
THAT'S A BIG DEAL WHEN YOU
ASSISTANCE.
CONSIDER HALF OF THE STATE HEATS
THAT'S A BIG DEAL WHEN YOU
WITH HEATING OIL, WHICH IS
CONSIDER HALF OF THE STATE HEATS
COSTING UPWARDS OF $4 A GALLON.
WITH HEATING OIL, WHICH IS
I TALKED TO A MAN WHO WAS TRYING
COSTING UPWARDS OF $4 A GALLON.
TO LIVE ON A $1700 A MONTH
I TALKED TO A MAN WHO WAS TRYING
SOCIAL SECURITY CHECK AND HE
TO LIVE ON A $1700 A MONTH
TOLD ME THAT HELP WAS THE
SOCIAL SECURITY CHECK AND HE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN EATING AND
TOLD ME THAT HELP WAS THE
KEEPING WARM.
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN EATING AND
OTHER CUTS THAT ARE IN THE
KEEPING WARM.
OFFING BUT HAVE NOT YET BEEN
OTHER CUTS THAT ARE IN THE
IMPOSED, 1700 RHODE ISLANDERS
OFFING BUT HAVE NOT YET BEEN
WILL LOSE THE FEDERAL NUTRITION
IMPOSED, 1700 RHODE ISLANDERS
PROGRAM KNOWN AS WIC, RHODE
WILL LOSE THE FEDERAL NUTRITION
ISLAND WILL LOSE ABOUT $2
PROGRAM KNOWN AS WIC, RHODE
MILLION IN SPECIAL EDUCATION
ISLAND WILL LOSE ABOUT $2
FUNDS.
MILLION IN SPECIAL EDUCATION
THEY'RE STILL TRYING TO FIGURE
FUNDS.
OUT HOW THAT'S GOING TO BE AB,
THEY'RE STILL TRYING TO FIGURE
SOED AND WE STAND TO LOSE $15
OUT HOW THAT'S GOING TO BE AB,
MILLION IN PROGRAMS FOR HOUSING
SOED AND WE STAND TO LOSE $15
THE VERY POOREST AMONG US.
MILLION IN PROGRAMS FOR HOUSING
THAT INCLUDES THE CLOSURE OF
THE VERY POOREST AMONG US.
PROBABLY ONE SHELTER NEXT WINTER
THAT INCLUDES THE CLOSURE OF
AND THIS WINTER WE HAD SHELTERS
PROBABLY ONE SHELTER NEXT WINTER
WITH STANDING ROOM ONLY.
AND THIS WINTER WE HAD SHELTERS
>> Suarez: WE'LL MOVE NEXT TO
WITH STANDING ROOM ONLY.
INDIANA.
>> Suarez: WE'LL MOVE NEXT TO
GRETCHEN, HOW DOES IT LOOK
INDIANA.
THERE.
GRETCHEN, HOW DOES IT LOOK
>> IT'S ACTUALLY VERY SIMILAR TO
THERE.
WHAT WE JUST HEARD ABOUT IN
>> IT'S ACTUALLY VERY SIMILAR TO
RHODE ISLAND.
WHAT WE JUST HEARD ABOUT IN
HEAD START IS PROBABLY THE
RHODE ISLAND.
PROGRAM THAT HAS AND SEEN THE
HEAD START IS PROBABLY THE
BIGGEST IMPACT SO FAR IT'S
PROGRAM THAT HAS AND SEEN THE
ESTIMATED THAT ABOUT A THOUSAND
BIGGEST IMPACT SO FAR IT'S
OF THE CHILDREN THAT CURRENTLY
ESTIMATED THAT ABOUT A THOUSAND
GO TO HEAD START PROGRAMS WILL
OF THE CHILDREN THAT CURRENTLY
BE CUT.
GO TO HEAD START PROGRAMS WILL
THAT'S OUT OF ABOUT
BE CUT.
15,000 THROUGHOUT THE STATE AND
THAT'S OUT OF ABOUT
A LOT OF THOSE PROGRAMS ARE
15,000 THROUGHOUT THE STATE AND
STARTING TO CUT BACK ALREADY
A LOT OF THOSE PROGRAMS ARE
SOME OF THEIR SUMMER PROGRAMS,
STARTING TO CUT BACK ALREADY
FOR EXAMPLE HAVING HAVE BEEN CUT
SOME OF THEIR SUMMER PROGRAMS,
BACK.
FOR EXAMPLE HAVING HAVE BEEN CUT
THEY ARE ONLY TAKING ABOUT A
BACK.
THIRD OF THE STUDENTS THAT THEY
THEY ARE ONLY TAKING ABOUT A
ORIGINALLY HAD ESTIMATED WOULD
THIRD OF THE STUDENTS THAT THEY
BE ABLE TO COME INTO THE SUMMER
ORIGINALLY HAD ESTIMATED WOULD
PROGRAM.
BE ABLE TO COME INTO THE SUMMER
WE'RE SEEING CUTS TO OUR
PROGRAM.
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS.
WE'RE SEEING CUTS TO OUR
LAST MONTH THEY WERE CUT ABOUT
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS.
10% WHICH DOESN'T SEEM LIKE A
LAST MONTH THEY WERE CUT ABOUT
LOT BUT AS WE HEARD IN RHODE
10% WHICH DOESN'T SEEM LIKE A
ISLAND WHEN YOU ARE ON THAT
LOT BUT AS WE HEARD IN RHODE
FIXED INCOME IT CAN REALLY CUT
ISLAND WHEN YOU ARE ON THAT
INTO YOUR BUDGET.
FIXED INCOME IT CAN REALLY CUT
ONE OF THE OTHER THINGS WE'RE
INTO YOUR BUDGET.
STILL WAITING ON IS OUR DEFENSE
ONE OF THE OTHER THINGS WE'RE
INDUSTRY.
STILL WAITING ON IS OUR DEFENSE
THAT'S QUITE A BIG INDUSTRY HERE
INDUSTRY.
IN INDIANA AND WE'RE SEEING IT
THAT'S QUITE A BIG INDUSTRY HERE
WAS ESTIMATED ABOUT 1,000
IN INDIANA AND WE'RE SEEING IT
NATIONAL GUARD TECHNICIANS WOULD
WAS ESTIMATED ABOUT 1,000
BE PUT ON FURLOUGH FOR 22 DAYS.
NATIONAL GUARD TECHNICIANS WOULD
WE HEARD THAT THAT HAS BEEN CUT
BE PUT ON FURLOUGH FOR 22 DAYS.
BACK TO 14 DAYS, IT SO THAT'S
WE HEARD THAT THAT HAS BEEN CUT
GOOD NEWS.
BACK TO 14 DAYS, IT SO THAT'S
HOWEVER THERE ARE A LOT OF
GOOD NEWS.
PEOPLE STILL WAITING FOR NEWS AS
HOWEVER THERE ARE A LOT OF
YOU SAW IN THE TELEVISION STORY
PEOPLE STILL WAITING FOR NEWS AS
THERE ARE SOME EMPLOYEES IN
YOU SAW IN THE TELEVISION STORY
CRANE, INDIANA, ABOUT 4,000 OF
THERE ARE SOME EMPLOYEES IN
THOSE CIVILIAN CONTRACTORS AT
CRANE, INDIANA, ABOUT 4,000 OF
THE NAVAL BASE DOWN THERE ARE
THOSE CIVILIAN CONTRACTORS AT
SET TO BE PUT ON FURLOUGH BUT
THE NAVAL BASE DOWN THERE ARE
THEY HAVE NOT HEARD EXACTLY WHEN
SET TO BE PUT ON FURLOUGH BUT
THAT WILL BE HOW LONG THAT WILL
THEY HAVE NOT HEARD EXACTLY WHEN
BE SO WE'RE IN A WAIT-AND-SEE
THAT WILL BE HOW LONG THAT WILL
MODE IN INDIANAPOLIS.
BE SO WE'RE IN A WAIT-AND-SEE
>> Pelley: WE.
MODE IN INDIANAPOLIS.
>> Suarez: WE HEAD NEXT TO NEW
>> Pelley: WE.
MEXICO WITH GENE GRANT.
>> Suarez: WE HEAD NEXT TO NEW
GENE?
MEXICO WITH GENE GRANT.
>> VERY SIMILAR FROM WHAT WE
GENE?
HEARD FROM INDIANA.
>> VERY SIMILAR FROM WHAT WE
THAT LAST B ABIDOUT THE
HEARD FROM INDIANA.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND
THAT LAST B ABIDOUT THE
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY CUTS HERE.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND
RAY, IN MEXICO WE HAVE SO BIG SO
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY CUTS HERE.
MUCH FEDERAL PRESENCE, LOS
RAY, IN MEXICO WE HAVE SO BIG SO
ALAMOS NATIONAL LAB TWO HOURS
MUCH FEDERAL PRESENCE, LOS
NORTH OF ALBUQUERQUE IN LOS
ALAMOS NATIONAL LAB TWO HOURS
ALAMOS AND INITIALLY IT LOOKED
NORTH OF ALBUQUERQUE IN LOS
LIKE WE  F $43
ALAMOS AND INITIALLY IT LOOKED
MILLION IN BUDGET CUTS THAT WAS
LIKE WE  F $43
BETWEEN AIR FORCE AND ARMY ARMY
MILLION IN BUDGET CUTS THAT WAS
BEING THE BULK OF THAT.
BETWEEN AIR FORCE AND ARMY ARMY
BUT THERE ARE THINGS THAT ARE
BEING THE BULK OF THAT.
TURNING OVER AS POSSIBILITYS TO
BUT THERE ARE THINGS THAT ARE
SQESER THAT ARE GIVING PEOPLE
TURNING OVER AS POSSIBILITYS TO
TROUBLE, INCLUDING OUR SENATE
SQESER THAT ARE GIVING PEOPLE
AND CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION WHO
TROUBLE, INCLUDING OUR SENATE
ARE FIGHTING RIGHT NOW TO MOVE
AND CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION WHO
MONEY AROUND FROM A
ARE FIGHTING RIGHT NOW TO MOVE
REPROGRAMMING SCHEME WITH D.O.E.
MONEY AROUND FROM A
TO CONTINUE WITH A DEAL THEY HAD
REPROGRAMMING SCHEME WITH D.O.E.
MADE WITH THE STATE
TO CONTINUE WITH A DEAL THEY HAD
THAT-TO-CLEAN UP SOME ACID AND
MADE WITH THE STATE
OTHER WASTES, NUCLEAR WASTE UP
THAT-TO-CLEAN UP SOME ACID AND
AT LOS ALAMOS.
OTHER WASTES, NUCLEAR WASTE UP
WELL, WE'RE OBLIGATED TO HAVE
AT LOS ALAMOS.
THAT CLEANED UP.
WELL, WE'RE OBLIGATED TO HAVE
IT'S AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
THAT CLEANED UP.
STATE AND D.O.E. THEY'RE ASKING
IT'S AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
FOR $20 MILLION MORE TO ENSURE
STATE AND D.O.E. THEY'RE ASKING
THAT HAPPENS.
FOR $20 MILLION MORE TO ENSURE
SENATOR TOM UDALL SAID IF THAT
THAT HAPPENS.
DOESN'T HAPPEN WE WOULD PREDICT
SENATOR TOM UDALL SAID IF THAT
FURLOUGHS AS EARLY AS NEXT WEEK
DOESN'T HAPPEN WE WOULD PREDICT
AND I WANT TO GO BACK TO
FURLOUGHS AS EARLY AS NEXT WEEK
SOMETHING OUR GUESTS FROM
AND I WANT TO GO BACK TO
INDIANA MENTIONED AS WELL THAT
SOMETHING OUR GUESTS FROM
SECRETARY HAGEL IS ANNOUNCED AS
INDIANA MENTIONED AS WELL THAT
WE HEAR IT OUT HERE WHAT THE
SECRETARY HAGEL IS ANNOUNCED AS
DEAL IS GOING TO BE ON
WE HEAR IT OUT HERE WHAT THE
FURLOUGHS.
DEAL IS GOING TO BE ON
WE HAVE HEARD ABOUT 22 DAYS DOWN
FURLOUGHS.
TO 14.
WE HAVE HEARD ABOUT 22 DAYS DOWN
WE'RE NOT SURE WHERE IT'S GOING
TO 14.
TO LEVEL OUT.
WE'RE NOT SURE WHERE IT'S GOING
THE MYSTERY IS THE BIG PROBLEM
TO LEVEL OUT.
AT THIS POINT FOR NEW MEXICO.
THE MYSTERY IS THE BIG PROBLEM
>> Suarez: FLO, IF YOU'RE NOT IN
AT THIS POINT FOR NEW MEXICO.
HEAD START OR ON UNEMPLOYMENT
>> Suarez: FLO, IF YOU'RE NOT IN
INSURANCE IS IT GETTING A LOT OF
HEAD START OR ON UNEMPLOYMENT
PLAY?
INSURANCE IS IT GETTING A LOT OF
IS IT SOMETHING PEOPLE ARE
PLAY?
TALKING ABOUT THAT THESE FEDERAL
IS IT SOMETHING PEOPLE ARE
CUTS ARE HERE AND THE EFFECTS
TALKING ABOUT THAT THESE FEDERAL
ARE STARTING TO BE SEEN?
CUTS ARE HERE AND THE EFFECTS
>> IT'S NOT GETTING COVERAGE OR
ARE STARTING TO BE SEEN?
AWARENESS.
>> IT'S NOT GETTING COVERAGE OR
I HAVEN'T HEARD ANYBODY TALKING
AWARENESS.
ABOUT IT.
I HAVEN'T HEARD ANYBODY TALKING
OUR LEGISLATURE HAS BEEN
ABOUT IT.
ABSORBED WITH SAME-SEX MARRIAGE
OUR LEGISLATURE HAS BEEN
RECENTLY.
ABSORBED WITH SAME-SEX MARRIAGE
I'M NOT SEEING ANY MOVEMENTS ON
RECENTLY.
SUBMITFIELD WHERE OUR STATEHOUSE
I'M NOT SEEING ANY MOVEMENTS ON
IS LOCATED TO ALLEVIATE ANY OF
SUBMITFIELD WHERE OUR STATEHOUSE
THESE CUTS.
IS LOCATED TO ALLEVIATE ANY OF
THERE'S A LOT OF LOBBYING GOING
THESE CUTS.
ON, PARTICULARLY TO RESTORE THE
THERE'S A LOT OF LOBBYING GOING
MEALS ON WHEELS CUTS THAT ARE
ON, PARTICULARLY TO RESTORE THE
ANTICIPATED WHICH COULD AFFECT
MEALS ON WHEELS CUTS THAT ARE
2000 SENIORS COULD BE CUT OFF
ANTICIPATED WHICH COULD AFFECT
THE MEALS ON WHEELS PROGRAM HERE
2000 SENIORS COULD BE CUT OFF
BUT I'M NOT SEEING ANY MOVEMENT
THE MEALS ON WHEELS PROGRAM HERE
TO RESTORE THESE CUTS.
BUT I'M NOT SEEING ANY MOVEMENT
AND THIS IS AT A TIME WHEN RHODE
TO RESTORE THESE CUTS.
ISLAND IS IN A BETTER POSITION
AND THIS IS AT A TIME WHEN RHODE
FINANCIALLY THAN IT HAS BEEN IN
ISLAND IS IN A BETTER POSITION
A LONG TIME FOR THE FIRST TIME
FINANCIALLY THAN IT HAS BEEN IN
IN SEVERAL YEARS WE DON'T HAVE A
A LONG TIME FOR THE FIRST TIME
HUGE DEFICIT TO FACE THIS YEAR.
IN SEVERAL YEARS WE DON'T HAVE A
>> Suarez: GENE, YOU OPENED BY
HUGE DEFICIT TO FACE THIS YEAR.
MENTIONING NPL IS AMONG THE
>> Suarez: GENE, YOU OPENED BY
STATES MOST DEPENDENT ON
MENTIONING NPL IS AMONG THE
TRANSFERS FROM THE FEDERAL
STATES MOST DEPENDENT ON
GOVERNMENT IS IS THERE HIGH
TRANSFERS FROM THE FEDERAL
AWARENESS THERE OF THE POSSIBLE
GOVERNMENT IS IS THERE HIGH
EFFECT DOWN THE ROAD OF THE
AWARENESS THERE OF THE POSSIBLE
SEQUESTER ON A STATE LIKE NEW
EFFECT DOWN THE ROAD OF THE
MEXICO?
SEQUESTER ON A STATE LIKE NEW
>> ON THE STREET YES.
MEXICO?
IN OFFICIAL NEW MEXICO, NO, WE
>> ON THE STREET YES.
JUST FINISHED OUR SESSION ABOUT
IN OFFICIAL NEW MEXICO, NO, WE
30, 45 DAYS AGO.
JUST FINISHED OUR SESSION ABOUT
IT HARDLY CAME UP, IT WAS AN
30, 45 DAYS AGO.
AMAZING CIRCUMSTANCE TO WATCH
IT HARDLY CAME UP, IT WAS AN
HAPPEN.
AMAZING CIRCUMSTANCE TO WATCH
ON THE STREET IT WAS A MUCH
HAPPEN.
DIFFERENT DEAL.
ON THE STREET IT WAS A MUCH
PORT A
DIFFERENT DEAL.
SANDIA NATIONAL LABS IS ON THEIR
PORT A
PROPERTY IN ALBUQUERQUE, THEY'VE
SANDIA NATIONAL LABS IS ON THEIR
COME UP WITH A METRIC THAT SHOWS
PROPERTY IN ALBUQUERQUE, THEY'VE
ONE OUT OF EVERY 1 JOBS IN THE
COME UP WITH A METRIC THAT SHOWS
ENTIRE STATE OF NEW MEXICO ARE
ONE OUT OF EVERY 1 JOBS IN THE
SOMEHOW ASSOCIATED WITH COURT
ENTIRE STATE OF NEW MEXICO ARE
LAND AIR FORCE BASE.
SOMEHOW ASSOCIATED WITH COURT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A PAYROLL
LAND AIR FORCE BASE.
ANNUALLY OF ABOUT 1.2 BILLION
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A PAYROLL
OUT OF HERE AND THEIR
ANNUALLY OF ABOUT 1.2 BILLION
PREDICTIONS -- THE PREDICTIONS
OUT OF HERE AND THEIR
THEY'RE IS A 50 MILE RADIUS
PREDICTIONS -- THE PREDICTIONS
AROUND THAT BASE.
THEY'RE IS A 50 MILE RADIUS
SO ANYBODY THAT'S A CIVILIAN
AROUND THAT BASE.
CONTRACTOR, WE'VE ALREADY HAD
SO ANYBODY THAT'S A CIVILIAN
SOME CONTRACTORS LET GO WHERE
CONTRACTOR, WE'VE ALREADY HAD
WE'VE HAD MAINTENANCE AND
SOME CONTRACTORS LET GO WHERE
JANITORIAL SERVICES LET GO AND
WE'VE HAD MAINTENANCE AND
ONE OF THE INTERESTING THINGS
JANITORIAL SERVICES LET GO AND
I'M GOING TO BE WATCHING HERE IS
ONE OF THE INTERESTING THINGS
HOW IS THIS GOING TO AFFECT
I'M GOING TO BE WATCHING HERE IS
MINORITY-OWNED BUSINESS
HOW IS THIS GOING TO AFFECT
CONTRACTING?
MINORITY-OWNED BUSINESS
THAT'S BEEN A VERY BIG PUSH HERE
CONTRACTING?
IN NEW MEXICO FOR A LOT OF YEARS
THAT'S BEEN A VERY BIG PUSH HERE
FOR ALL OF OUR FEDERAL OUTLETS
IN NEW MEXICO FOR A LOT OF YEARS
AND SOME GREAT PROGRESS HAS BEEN
FOR ALL OF OUR FEDERAL OUTLETS
MADE BUT ALL THAT COULD
AND SOME GREAT PROGRESS HAS BEEN
POTENTIALLY ROLL BACK IF IN FACT
MADE BUT ALL THAT COULD
THOSE MOST VULNERABLE
POTENTIALLY ROLL BACK IF IN FACT
CONTRACTORS ARE THE FIRST TO BE
THOSE MOST VULNERABLE
LET GO SO FOLKS ARE WAITING AND
CONTRACTORS ARE THE FIRST TO BE
SEEING WHICH WAY THIS WILL PLAY
LET GO SO FOLKS ARE WAITING AND
OUT BUT IF YOU'RE IN SOMEONE'S
SEEING WHICH WAY THIS WILL PLAY
KITCHEN OR DINING ROOM THEY KNOW
OUT BUT IF YOU'RE IN SOMEONE'S
ABOUT SEQUESTRATION.
KITCHEN OR DINING ROOM THEY KNOW
THEY HEAR IT OFFICIALLY IN NEW
ABOUT SEQUESTRATION.
MEXICO FROM EITHER THE
THEY HEAR IT OFFICIALLY IN NEW
GOVERNOR'S OFFICE, THE
MEXICO FROM EITHER THE
LEGISLATURE, THE MAYOR OFFICE
GOVERNOR'S OFFICE, THE
HERE IN ALBUQUERQUE, VERY LITTLE
LEGISLATURE, THE MAYOR OFFICE
AT THIS POINT.
HERE IN ALBUQUERQUE, VERY LITTLE
>> Suarez: GRETCHEN, THIS WAS
AT THIS POINT.
THIS TITANIC POLITICAL BATTLE
>> Suarez: GRETCHEN, THIS WAS
FOR SEQUESTRATION ARRIVED.
THIS TITANIC POLITICAL BATTLE
ONCE IT CAME DID PEOPLE BELIEVE
FOR SEQUESTRATION ARRIVED.
IT WAS THAT BIG A DEAL ROHR
ONCE IT CAME DID PEOPLE BELIEVE
THESE EFFECTS IN INDIANA ON THE
IT WAS THAT BIG A DEAL ROHR
NATIONAL GUARD, ON A BASE IN
THESE EFFECTS IN INDIANA ON THE
CRANE ON PEOPLE WHO HAVE KIDS IN
NATIONAL GUARD, ON A BASE IN
HEAD START SO LIMITED THAT IT'S
CRANE ON PEOPLE WHO HAVE KIDS IN
NOT WIDELY FELT HERE?
HEAD START SO LIMITED THAT IT'S
>> I THINK THE ISSUE HERE ISN'T
NOT WIDELY FELT HERE?
THAT IT'S SO LIMITED AS MUCH AS
>> I THINK THE ISSUE HERE ISN'T
WHO IT EFFECTS.
THAT IT'S SO LIMITED AS MUCH AS
I TALK TO ONE ECONOMISTS WHO
WHO IT EFFECTS.
SAID THE CUTS WE'RE SEEING ARE
I TALK TO ONE ECONOMISTS WHO
TOO -- TO BE HONEST LOW-INCOME
SAID THE CUTS WE'RE SEEING ARE
SERVICES AND THAT'S NOT WHAT YOU
TOO -- TO BE HONEST LOW-INCOME
HEAR ABOUT A SO A LOT OF PEOPLE
SERVICES AND THAT'S NOT WHAT YOU
IN THE MIDDLE AND UPPER CLASSES
HEAR ABOUT A SO A LOT OF PEOPLE
AREN'T EVEN PHASED THAT MUCH BY
IN THE MIDDLE AND UPPER CLASSES
SEQUESTRATION BARRING, OF
AREN'T EVEN PHASED THAT MUCH BY
COURSE, THE CONTRACT -- THE
SEQUESTRATION BARRING, OF
DEFENSE CONTRACTORS AND OTHER
COURSE, THE CONTRACT -- THE
PEOPLE IN THE DEFENSE INDUSTRY
DEFENSE CONTRACTORS AND OTHER
SO WE HAVEN'T HEARD MUCH ABOUT
PEOPLE IN THE DEFENSE INDUSTRY
IT AS OUR OTHER COLLEAGUES HAVE
SO WE HAVEN'T HEARD MUCH ABOUT
MENTIONED WE WRAPPED UP OUR
IT AS OUR OTHER COLLEAGUES HAVE
LEGISLATIVE SESSION AND IT
MENTIONED WE WRAPPED UP OUR
WASN'T DISCUSSED HARDLY AT ALL
LEGISLATIVE SESSION AND IT
AND WE HAVE HEARD A FEW THINGS
WASN'T DISCUSSED HARDLY AT ALL
HERE AND THERE FROM OUR U.S.
AND WE HAVE HEARD A FEW THINGS
SENATORS, FOR EXAMPLE,
HERE AND THERE FROM OUR U.S.
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU WERE SEEING
SENATORS, FOR EXAMPLE,
FURLOUGHS BACKING UP THOSE
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU WERE SEEING
AIRPORT BUS WE HAVE NOT HEARD
FURLOUGHS BACKING UP THOSE
MUCH GOING BACK TO SOME PEOPLE
AIRPORT BUS WE HAVE NOT HEARD
IN THE DEFENSE INDUSTRY.
MUCH GOING BACK TO SOME PEOPLE
THEY HAVE BEEN VOCAL ABOUT IT
IN THE DEFENSE INDUSTRY.
BUT, AGAIN, THOSE ARE A LIMITED
THEY HAVE BEEN VOCAL ABOUT IT
NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE STATE
BUT, AGAIN, THOSE ARE A LIMITED
BEING AFFECTED.
NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE STATE
>> Suarez: GRETCHEN FRAZEE IN
BEING AFFECTED.
INDIANA, GENE GRANT IN NEW
>> Suarez: GRETCHEN FRAZEE IN
MEXICO, FLO JANUARY NICK IN
INDIANA, GENE GRANT IN NEW
RHODE ISLAND, THANKS TO ALL OF
MEXICO, FLO JANUARY NICK IN
YOU.
FIND OUT HOW THE SEQUESTER
AFFECTED A COMMUNITY NEAR YOU.
THAT'S ON OUR HOME PAGE.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT,
MOVIES, MUSIC, AND MORE: HELPING
DEFINE AND PRESERVE OUR CULTURAL
HISTORY.
THE 1894 SILENT FILM, "ANNABEL
BUTTERFLY," CREATED BY NONE
OTHER THAN THOMAS EDISON HIMSELF
IN HIS NEW JERSEY STUDIO, ONE OF
THE OLDEST MOVIES EVER RESTORED.
AS WITH OTHER FILMS FROM THIS
PERIOD OF EXPERIMENTATION, WHEN
FRAMES WERE MOSTLY COLORED BY
HAND, THE RESTORATION IS A
PAINSTAKING PROCE.SS
IT'S ALL PART OF THE WORK DONE
HERE AT THE PACKARD CAMPUS OF
THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, THE
LARGEST AUDIO AND VISUAL
COLLECTION IN THE WORLD.
>> MOVI ANDES SOUND RECORDINGS
WERE AN ESSENTIAL GLUE THAT
HELPED CREATE AND FORM AMERICAN
CULTURE JUST AS IMPORTANT AS ANY
OTHER CULTURAL ASPECT IN
AMERICA.
>> Brown: PATRICK LOUGHNEY HEADS
THE NATIONAL AUDIO VISUAL
CONSERVATION CENTER, MORE THAN
THREE MILLION SOUND RECORDINGS,
A MILLION AND HALF FILMS AND
VIDEO, OCCUPYING SOME 100 MILES
OF SHELVES.
THE 45-ACRE CAMPUS IS NESTLED IN
THE HILLS OF CENTRAL VIRGINIA, A
STATE-OF-THE-ART MODERNIZED
FACILITY THAT ONCE SERVED AS A
COLD WAR-ERA OUTPOST FOR THE
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK, DESIGNED
TO WITHSTAND A NUCLEAR BLAST.
TODAY THE TREASURE BEING
PROTECTED IS CULTURAL, AN EFFORT
BORN OF A GROWING CONCERN THAT
AUDIO AND VISUAL RECORDINGS WERE
DISAPPEARING-- IN SOME CASES
MISPLACED, IGNORED, OR
FORGOTTEN, IN OTHERS DUE TO FILM
AND TAPE LITERALLY
DISINTEGRATING.
GENE DEANNA, WHO HEADS THE VAST
RECORDED SOUND SECTION AT THE
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, SAYS
CYLINDERS INVENTED BY EDISON IN
THE 1800's WERE THE VERY FIRST
MASS PRODUCED SOUND FORMAT.
>> IF COLUMBIA RECORDS, WHO
MANUFACTURED THESE, WANTED TO
MAKE TEN CYLINDERS, THEY WOULD
HAVE TO HAVE TEN RECORDERS, AND
THE SINGER OF THE BAND OR THE
SPEAKER WOULD SPEAK OR SING INTO
THE HORNS AND MAKE TEN, AND THEN
THEY'D RELOAD AND DO IT AGAIN.
THESE WOULD BE MOSTLY HEARD NOT
IN PRIVATE HOMES, BUT IN
NICKELODEONS.
>> Brown: ONE EXAMPLE HERE:
PRESIDENT McKINLEY'S 1896
CAMPAIGN SONGS RECORDED ON WAX
CYLINDERS.
YEARS LATER, TECHNOLOGY HAD
EVOLVED.
THIS 1936 LOUIS ARMSTRONG
RECORDING WAS MADE ON A NICKEL-
PLATED COPPER DISC.
THE GOAL HERE IS TO EXTRACT AS
MUCH OF THE SOUND OR SONIC
INFORMATION AS POSSIBLE FROM THE
OLD FORMAT, IN ORDER TO CREATE A
NEW HIGH-QUALITY DIGITAL VERSION
THAT CAN BE PRESERVED FOR THE
FUTURE.
WE WATCHED THAT PROCESS--
STRIPPING OFF THE AUDIO D.N.A.
IN A SENSE-- UNDERTAKEN ON A
LACQUER DISC OF ARTHUR SMITH'S
"GUITAR BOOGIE" FROM THE 1940's;
AND AMERICAN COMPOSER ROY
HARRIS' "DUO FOR CELLO AND
PIANO" FROM THE 1970's.
BUT A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
MATERIAL HAS BEEN LOST, EVEN
HISTORIC RECORDINGS BY THE LIKES
OF GEORGE GERSHWIN, FRANK
SINATRA, AND JUDY GARLAND.
THE LIBRARY WAS MANDATED BY
CONGRESS TO DEVELOP A NEW AUDIO
RECORDING PRESERVATION STRATEGY,
AND BROUGHT OUT A PLAN EARLIER
THIS YEAR.
AMONG ITS GOALS: CREATE A
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE NATIONAL
DIRECTORY OF COLLECTIONS;
DEVELOP A COORDINATED
COLLECTIONS POLICY, INCLUDING A
STRATEGY TO COLLECT, CATALOGUE,
AND PRESERVE RECORDINGS;
CONSTRUCT STORAGE FACILITIES FOR
LONG-TERM PRESERVATION; AND
SIMPLIFY AND CLARIFY DISPARATE
COPYRIGHT LAWS GOVERNING
HISTORICAL RECORDINGS.
IT'S NOT AN EASY TASK, SAYS THE
LIBRARIAN OF CONGRESS, JAMES
BILLINGTON, BUT IT'S A NECESSARY
ONE.
>> YEAH, THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF
OBSCURE PLACES WHERE THINGS HAVE
BEEN PRESERVED, SOMETIMES IN
PEOPLE'S ATTICS, SOMETIMES IN
DEPOSITORIES THAT NO LONGER
EXIST OR HAVE CHANGED OWNERSHIP.
ITS DETECTIVE WORK TO
REASSEMBLING WHAT THE ORIGINAL
PRODUCT WAS, AS CLOSE AS
POSSIBLE, AND AS PERMANENT A NEW
MATERIAL OF REFORMATTING ACANS
BE MADE.
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE RECORDED
SOUND, WELL, IT'S SO DIVERSE,
IT'S SO INTERESTING.
IT'S NOT JUST MUSIC-- OR, IT'S A
LOT OF MUSIC, BUT IT'S ALSO
COMEDY OR IT'S THE SOUNDS THAT
WE NO LONGER HEAR, EVEN THE
SOUNDS OF A FOG HORN OR A
DISTANT TRAIN WHISTLE.
ALL OF THIS IS THE SOUNDSCAPE OF
OUR WORLD, AND OUR COUNTRY HAS
BEEN A VERY NOISY PARTICIPANT
AND A VERY CREATIVE ONE.
>> Brown: WHEN IT COMES TO FILM
AND TV, THE LOSS IS ALSO GREAT.
A RECENT STUDY, FOR EXAMPLE,
ESTIMATES THAT 80% OF MOTION
PICTURES MADE BEFORE 1930 HAVE
BEEN LOST.
AT THE CONSERVATION CENTER,
TECHNICIANS WORK ON THOSE THAT
HAVE MANAGED TO SURVIVE, HOWEVER
DAMAGED, IN AN EFFORT TO BRING
THEM BACK TO A FORM THAT CAN BE
COPIED, PRESERVED, AND SHOWN
ONCE MORE.
THAT CAN ENTAIL CLEANING OF THE
OLD FILM, REPAIRING OF SPROCKETS
AND SPLICES, AND RESETTING
EXPOSURE LEVELS.
>> OH, YOU GREAT BIG LATIN LOVER
YOU!
>> OH, YOU EXCITED WOMAN, YOU!
>> Brown: MORE RECENT FILMS AND
VIDEO REQUIRE REPAIRS AS WELL,
LIKE EPISODES OF "I LOVE LUCY";
THE ONLY APPEARANCE BY THE ROCK
BAND THE DOORS ON THE "ED
SULLIVAN SHOW"; AND A 1975
DOCUMENTARY ON THE MEMPHIS
BLUES, A TECHNICIAN RESCANNING
THE FILM VERSION, TOGGLING
BETWEEN THE GRAINY ORIGINAL AND
THE TWEAKED, VIBRANT VERSION OF
BLUES GREAT B.B. KING.
THE 1940 YEAR FILM "ROAD TO
SINGAPORE," WITH BOB HOPE, BING
CROSBY, AND DOROTHY LAMOUR, IS
TAKING MONTHS TO FULLY MEND,
REQUIRING EXTENSIVE SPLICING.
OF COURSE, TECHNOLOGY HAS
CHANGED AGAIN, AS VIDEO AND
MUSIC ARE DELIVERED DIGITALLY.
BUT EVEN IN THE INTERNET AGE,
PATRICK LOUGHNEY SAYS, THE
NATION MUST TAKE CARE TO
PRESERVE ITS CULTURAL HERITAGE.
>> THERE IS A BELIEF AMONG THE
YOUNGER GENERATION THAT
EVERYTHING HAS BEEN DIGITIZED
THAT EVER EXISTED BEFORE OR WILL
SOON BE AND WILL BE AVAILABLE ON
THE INTERNET, AND THAT'S
FACTUALLY NOT ACCURATE.
>> Brown: IN THE MEANTIME, A
CONSTT FLANOW OF NEW TREASURES--
ABOUT 150,000 SOUND AND MOVING
IMAGE RECORDINGS-- CONTINUES TO
BE TAKEN IN EACH YEAR AT THE
PACKARD FACILITY.
AND THERE'S A RENEWED FOCUS ON
HELPING PRESERVE THE RICH
MATERIAL HELD BY OTHER
INSTITUTIONS, SUCH AS UNIVERSITY
ARCHIVES, PUBLIC LIBRARIES, AND
HISTORICAL SOCIETIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
>> THERE ARE VAST AMOUNTS OF
AUDIOVISUAL HISTORY IN THE
UNITED STATES THAT HAVE NOT BEEN
PRESERVED.
THEY ARE BEING HELD BY
INSTITUTIONS OR PRIVATE
COLLECTORS WHO SHOULD BE
ACKNOWLEDGED FOR RECOGNIZING THE
IMPORTANCE OF THOSE MATERIALS,
BUT THEY NEED HELP.
>> Brown: TO THAT END, THE
LIBRARY HAS CREATED A FOUNDATION
TO RAISE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
FUNDS TO AWARD GRANTS TO SMALLER
ARCHIVES FOR THEIR PRESERVATION
WORK.
ONLINE YOU CAN SEE AND HEAR MORE
ABOUT THE PRESERVATION EFFORTS
ON OUR ARTBEAT PAGE.
>> Suarez: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE PENTAGON REPORTED UP TO
26,000 MEMBERS OF THE U.S.
MILITARY WERE SEXUALLY ASSAULTED
LAST YEAR.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED IT AN
OUTRAGE.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS
FINISHED ABOVE 15,000 FOR THE
FIRST TIME.
AND THREE WOMEN KIDNAPPED IN
CLEVELAND YEARS AGO SPENT THEIR
FIRST DAY OF FREEDOM AFTER BEING
RESCUED OVERNIGHT.
>> Brown: ONLINE WE TRACK THE
BEST AND WORST COUNTRIES TO BE A
NEWBORN.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE
DETAILS.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE MILLION
BABIES DIE EACH YEAR ON THE DAY
THEY ARE BORN.
THE ORGANIZATION SAVE THE
CHILDREN RANKS COUNTRIES THAT
ARE BEST-- AND WORST-- FOR
NEWBORNS.
THAT STUDY IS ON OUR HEALTH
PAGE.
AND READ ABOUT A SOLAR-POWERED
PLANE THAT CRUISES AT 43 MILES
PER HOUR WITH NO FUEL.
THAT'S ON OUR SCIENCE PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Suarez: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
HIGH-TECH FORENSIC SCIENCE USED
IN THE GENOCIDE TRIAL OF FORMER
GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT RIOS MONTT.
I'M RAY SUAREZ.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.